Examples/Readme.md, before:

## Code/Annotation examples

Collection of code/annotation examples and their corresponding OpenAPI specs generated using swagger-php.

* **petstore.swagger.io**

  The [swagger-ui](http://petstore.swagger.io/) petstore example using swagger-php annotations.

  * petstore.swagger.io: [source](petstore.swagger.io) / [spec](petstore.swagger.io/petstore.swagger.io.yaml)


* **swagger-spec**

  Some more examples based on the (now defunct) [swagger-api](https://github.com/swagger-api/) specs.

  * petstore: [source](swagger-spec/petstore) / [spec](swagger-spec/petstore/petstore.yaml)
  * petstore-simple: [source](swagger-spec/petstore-simple)
    / [spec](swagger-spec/petstore-simple/petstore-simple.yaml)
  * petstore-with-external-docs: [source](swagger-spec/petstore-with-external-docs)
    / [spec](swagger-spec/petstore-with-external-docs/petstore-with-external-docs.yaml)
  * petstore-3.0 (includes oauth2 auth flow): [source](petstore-3.0) / [spec](openapi-spec/petstore-3.0.yaml)


* **Other**

  * using-links: [source](using-links) / [spec](using-links/using-links.yaml)
  * using-links-php81: [source](using-links-php81) / [spec](using-links-php81/using-links-php81.yaml) - **requires PHP 8.1**
  * simple response object: [source](example-object) / [spec](example-object/example-object.yaml)
  * misc: [source](misc) / [spec](misc/misc.yaml)
  * using interfaces: [source](using-interfaces) / [spec](using-interfaces/using-interfaces.yaml)
  * using traits: [source](using-traits) / [spec](using-traits/using-traits.yaml)
  * using refs: [source](using-refs) / [spec](using-refs/using-refs.yaml)
  * nested schemas and class hierachies: [source](nesting) / [spec](nesting/nesting.yaml)
  * polymorphism using `@OA\Discriminator`: [source](polymorphism) / [spec](polymorphism/polymorphism.yaml)
  * webhooks using `@OA\Webhooks`: [source](webhooks) / [spec](webhooks/webhooks.yaml)
  * webhooks81 using `@OAT\Webhooks`: [source](webhooks81) / [spec](webhooks81/webhooks.yaml)


## Custom processors

[Processors](../src/Processors) implement the various steps involved in converting annotations into an OpenAPI spec.

Writing a custom processor is the recommended way to extend swagger-php in a clean way.

Processors are expected to implement the `__invoke()` method expecting the current `Analysis` object as single parameter:

```php
<?php
...
use OpenApi\Analysis;
...

class MyCustomProcessor
{
    public function __invoke(Analysis $analysis)
    {
        // custom processing
    }
}
```

* **schema-query-parameter processor**

  A processor that takes a vendor tag (expecting a schema `#ref`) and injects all properties of that given schema as
  query parameter to the [request definition](processors/schema-query-parameter/app/ProductController.php).

  [source](processors/schema-query-parameter)

* **sort-components processor**

  A processor that sorts components so they appear in alphabetical order.

  [source](processors/sort-components)

Commit message:

Add example schema-query-parameter-attributes processor (#1569)

Examples/Readme.md, after:

## Code/Annotation examples

Collection of code/annotation examples and their corresponding OpenAPI specs generated using swagger-php.

* **petstore.swagger.io**

  The [swagger-ui](http://petstore.swagger.io/) petstore example using swagger-php annotations.

  * petstore.swagger.io: [source](petstore.swagger.io) / [spec](petstore.swagger.io/petstore.swagger.io.yaml)


* **swagger-spec**

  Some more examples based on the (now defunct) [swagger-api](https://github.com/swagger-api/) specs.

  * petstore: [source](swagger-spec/petstore) / [spec](swagger-spec/petstore/petstore.yaml)
  * petstore-simple: [source](swagger-spec/petstore-simple)
    / [spec](swagger-spec/petstore-simple/petstore-simple.yaml)
  * petstore-with-external-docs: [source](swagger-spec/petstore-with-external-docs)
    / [spec](swagger-spec/petstore-with-external-docs/petstore-with-external-docs.yaml)
  * petstore-3.0 (includes oauth2 auth flow): [source](petstore-3.0) / [spec](openapi-spec/petstore-3.0.yaml)


* **Other**

  * using-links: [source](using-links) / [spec](using-links/using-links.yaml)
  * using-links-php81: [source](using-links-php81) / [spec](using-links-php81/using-links-php81.yaml) - **requires PHP 8.1**
  * simple response object: [source](example-object) / [spec](example-object/example-object.yaml)
  * misc: [source](misc) / [spec](misc/misc.yaml)
  * using interfaces: [source](using-interfaces) / [spec](using-interfaces/using-interfaces.yaml)
  * using traits: [source](using-traits) / [spec](using-traits/using-traits.yaml)
  * using refs: [source](using-refs) / [spec](using-refs/using-refs.yaml)
  * nested schemas and class hierachies: [source](nesting) / [spec](nesting/nesting.yaml)
  * polymorphism using `@OA\Discriminator`: [source](polymorphism) / [spec](polymorphism/polymorphism.yaml)
  * webhooks using `@OA\Webhooks`: [source](webhooks) / [spec](webhooks/webhooks.yaml)
  * webhooks81 using `@OAT\Webhooks`: [source](webhooks81) / [spec](webhooks81/webhooks.yaml)


## Custom processors

[Processors](../src/Processors) implement the various steps involved in converting annotations into an OpenAPI spec.

Writing a custom processor is the recommended way to extend swagger-php in a clean way.

Processors are expected to implement the `__invoke()` method expecting the current `Analysis` object as single parameter:

```php
<?php
...
use OpenApi\Analysis;
...

class MyCustomProcessor
{
    public function __invoke(Analysis $analysis)
    {
        // custom processing
    }
}
```

* **schema-query-parameter processor**

  A processor that takes a vendor tag (expecting a schema `#ref`) and injects all properties of that given schema as
  query parameter to the [request definition](processors/schema-query-parameter/app/ProductController.php).

  [source](processors/schema-query-parameter)

* **schema-query-parameter-attributes processor**

  Same as the `schema-query-parameter` processor but uses php attributes instead of annotations.
  A processor that takes a vendor tag (expecting a schema `#ref`) and injects all properties of that given schema as
  query parameter to the [request definition](processors/schema-query-parameter-attributes/SchemaQueryParameter.php).

  [source](processors/schema-query-parameter-attributes)

* **sort-components processor**

  A processor that sorts components so they appear in alphabetical order.

  [source](processors/sort-components)
