docs/Getting-started.md, before:

# Getting started

## Installation

We recommend adding swagger-php to your project with [Composer](https://getcomposer.org)

```bash
composer require zircote/swagger-php
```

## Usage

Generate always-up-to-date documentation.

```php
<?php
require("vendor/autoload.php");

$openapi = \OpenApi\Generator::scan(['/path/to/project']);

header('Content-Type: application/x-yaml');
echo $openapi->toYaml();
```

This will scan the php-files in the given folder(s), look for OpenApi annotations and output a json file.

Complete documentation of how to use the `Generator` class can be found in the [Generator Migration](https://zircote.github.io/swagger-php/Generator-migration.html) guide.

## CLI

Instead of generating the documentation dynamically we also provide a command line interface.
This allows to write the documentation to a static yaml/json file.

```bash
./vendor/bin/openapi --help
```

For cli usage from anywhere install swagger-php globally and add the `~/.composer/vendor/bin` directory to the PATH in your environment.

```bash
composer global require zircote/swagger-php
```

## Write annotations

The goal of swagger-php is to generate a openapi.json using phpdoc annotations.

#### When you write:

```php
/**
 * @OA\Info(title="My First API", version="0.1")
 */

/**
 * @OA\Get(
 *     path="/api/resource.json",
 *     @OA\Response(response="200", description="An example resource")
 * )
 */
```

#### swagger-php will generate:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: "My First API"
  version: "0.1"
paths:
  /api/resource.json:
    get:
      responses:
        "200":
          description: "An example resource"
```

### Using variables

You can use constants inside doctrine annotations.

```php
define("API_HOST", ($env === "production") ? "example.com" : "localhost");
```

```php
/**
 * @OA\Server(url=API_HOST)
 */
```

When you're using the CLI you'll need to include the php file with the constants using the `--bootstrap` options:

```bash
openapi --bootstrap constants.php
```

### Annotation placement

You shouldn't place all annotations inside one big @OA\OpenApi() annotation block, but scatter them throughout your codebase.
swagger-php will scan your project and merge all annotations into one @OA\OpenApi annotation.

The big benefit swagger-php provides is that the documentation lives close to the code implementing the API.

### Arrays and Objects

Doctrine annotation supports arrays, but uses `{` and `}` instead of `[` and `]`.

Doctrine also supports objects, which also use `{` and `}` and require the property names to be surrounded with `"`.

::: warning DON'T WRITE

```php
/**
 * @OA\Info(
 *   title="My first API",
 *   version="1.0.0",
 *   contact={
 *     "email": "support@example.com"
 *   }
 * )
 */
```

:::

This "works" but most objects have an annotation with the same name as the property, such as `@OA\Contact` for `contact`:

::: tip WRITE

```php
/**
 * @OA\Info(
 *   title="My first API",
 *   version="1.0.0",
 *   @OA\Contact(
 *     email="support@example.com"
 *   )
 * )
 */
```

:::

This also adds validation, so when you misspell a property or forget a required property, it will trigger a PHP warning.
For example, if you write `emial="support@example.com"`, swagger-php would generate a notice with `Unexpected field "emial" for @OA\Contact(), expecting "name", "email", ...`

Placing multiple annotations of the same type will result in an array of objects.
For objects, the key is defined by the field with the same name as the annotation: `response` in a `@OA\Response`, `property` in a `@OA\Property`, etc.

```php
/**
 * @OA\Get(
 *   path="/products",
 *   summary="list products",
 *   @OA\Response(
 *     response=200,
 *     description="A list with products"
 *   ),
 *   @OA\Response(
 *     response="default",
 *     description="an ""unexpected"" error"
 *   )
 * )
 */
```

#### Results in:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
paths:
  /products:
    get:
      summary: "list products"
      responses:
        "200":
          description: "A list with products"
        default:
          description: 'an "unexpected" error'
```

### Detects values based on context

swagger-php looks at the context of the comment which reduces duplication.

```php
/**
 * @OA\Schema()
 */
class Product {

    /**
     * The product name
     * @var string
     * @OA\Property()
     */
    public $name;
}
```

#### Results in:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
components:
  schemas:
    Product:
      properties:
        name:
          description: "The product name"
          type: string
      type: object
```

#### As if you'd written:

```php
    /**
     * The product name
     * @var string
     *
     * @OA\Property(
     *   property="name",
     *   type="string",
     *   description="The product name"
     * )
     */
    public $name;
```

### Shortcuts

#### Anotation namespace

Instead of writing the <abbr title="Full Qualified Class Name">FQCN</abbr>: `@OpenApi\Annotations\Response()` you can write the shorter `@OA\Response()` instead.

This works because doctrine picks up on the use statements like:

```php
use OpenApi\Annotations as OA;
```

And swagger-php injects this namespace alias, even when it's not in the php file.  
But if your editor supports doctrine annotation completion, you still need to add the namespace alias otherwise it can't find the annotation classes for autocompletion.

#### Json or Xml

The `@OA\MediaType` is used to describe the content:

```php
/**
 * @OA\Response(
 *     response=200,
 *     description="successful operation",
 *     @OA\MediaType(
 *         mediaType="application/json",
 *         @OA\Schema(ref="#/components/schemas/User"),
 *     )
 * ),
 */
```

But because most API requests and responses are JSON, the `@OA\JsonContent` allows you to write:

```php
/**
 * @OA\Response(
 *     response=200,
 *     description="successful operation",
 *     @OA\JsonContent(ref="#/components/schemas/User"),
 * )
 */
```

During processing the `@OA\JsonContent` unfolds to `@OA\MediaType( mediaType="application/json", @OA\Schema(`
and will generate the same output.

On a similar note, you generally don't have to write a `@OA\PathItem` because this annotation will be generated based on the path in operation `@OA\Get`, `@OA\Post`, etc.

## Reusing annotations (ref)

It's common that multiple requests have some overlap in either the request or the response.
To keep things DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) the specification includes referencing other parts of the JSON using `$ref`s

```php
/**
 * @OA\Schema(
 *   schema="product_id",
 *   type="integer",
 *   format="int64",
 *   description="The unique identifier of a product in our catalog"
 * )
 */
```

#### Results in:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
components:
  schemas:
    product_id:
      description: "The unique identifier of a product in our catalog"
      type: integer
      format: int64
```

This doesn't do anything by itself, but now you can reference this piece by its path in the JSON `#/components/schemas/product_id`

```php
    /**
     * @OA\Property(ref="#/components/schemas/product_id")
     */
    public $id;
```

For more tips on refs, browse through the [using-refs example](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/Examples/using-refs).

## Composition

You can combine model definitions into new schema compositions with [allOf](https://swagger.io/specification/#schemaComposition)

```php
/**
 * @OA\Schema(
 *   schema="UpdateItem",
 *   allOf={
 *     @OA\Schema(ref="#/components/schemas/NewItem"),
 *     @OA\Schema(
 *       @OA\Property(property="id", type="integer"),
 *       @OA\Property(property="created_at", ref="#/components/schemas/BaseModel/properties/createdAt")
 *     )
 *   }
 * )
 */
```

More info in the [Inheritance and Polymorphism](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/data-models/inheritance-and-polymorphism/) chapter.

## Array parameters in query

Depending on [style-values](https://swagger.io/specification/#style-values) `@OA\Parameter(in="query", name="param", ...)` might create urls like this: `path?param=123&param=abc` which doesn't work when reading the param values in php.

The solution is to change the name `param` into `param[]` which will create
`path?param[]=123&param[]=abc` and results in an php array.

## Vendor extensions

The specification allows for [custom properties](http://swagger.io/specification/#vendorExtensions) as long as they start with "x-". Therefore all swagger-php annotations have an `x` property which will unfold into "x-" properties.

```php
/**
 * @OA\Info(
 *   title="Example",
 *   version="1.0.0",
 *   x={
 *     "some-name": "a-value",
 *     "another": 2,
 *     "complex-type": {
 *       "supported":{
 *         {"version": "1.0", "level": "baseapi"},
 *         {"version": "2.1", "level": "fullapi"},
 *       }
 *     }
 *   }
 * )
 */
```

#### Results in:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Example
  version: 1
  x-some-name: a-value
  x-another: 2
  x-complex-type:
    supported:
      - version: "1.0"
        level: baseapi
      - version: "2.1"
        level: fullapi
```

The [Amazon API Gateway](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/api-gateway-swagger-extensions.html) for example, makes use of these.

## OpenApi

To learn about what you can generate, which options to use and how, look at the [docs on swagger.io](https://swagger.io/docs/)

It has sections about:

- [Basic structure](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/basic-structure/)
- [Describing parameters](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-parameters/)
- [Describing responses](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-responses/)
- and [more](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/)

For more detailed information look at the [OpenApi Specification](http://swagger.io/specification/)

Commit message:

PHP 8.1 attributes (#982)
* PHP 8.1 support
* Annotations can be used as PHP attributes
* New annotation `PathParameter` added
* Removal of deprecated static properties used to configure the underlying Doctrine annotations parser
* New annotation `Attachable` to allow to attach any data to annotations/attributes without affecting the generated spec

docs/Getting-started.md, after:

# Getting started

## Installation

We recommend adding swagger-php to your project with [Composer](https://getcomposer.org)

```bash
composer require zircote/swagger-php
```

## Usage

Generate always-up-to-date documentation.

```php
<?php
require("vendor/autoload.php");

$openapi = \OpenApi\Generator::scan(['/path/to/project']);

header('Content-Type: application/x-yaml');
echo $openapi->toYaml();
```

This will scan the php-files in the given folder(s), look for OpenApi annotations and output a json file.

Complete documentation of how to use the `Generator` class can be found in the [Generator Migration](https://zircote.github.io/swagger-php/Generator-migration.html) guide.

## CLI

Instead of generating the documentation dynamically we also provide a command line interface.
This allows to write the documentation to a static yaml/json file.

```bash
./vendor/bin/openapi --help
```

For cli usage from anywhere install swagger-php globally and add the `~/.composer/vendor/bin` directory to the PATH in your environment.

```bash
composer global require zircote/swagger-php
```

## Document your code using annotations or PHP attributes

The goal of swagger-php is to generate a openapi.json using phpdoc annotations or PHP attributes.

#### When you write:

```php
/**
 * @OA\Info(title="My First API", version="0.1")
 */

/**
 * @OA\Get(
 *     path="/api/resource.json",
 *     @OA\Response(response="200", description="An example resource")
 * )
 */
```

#### swagger-php will generate:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: "My First API"
  version: "0.1"
paths:
  /api/resource.json:
    get:
      responses:
        "200":
          description: "An example resource"
```

#### PHP Attributes
This documentation uses annotations in its examples. However, as per PHP 8.1 you may also use all documented
annotations as attributes. Then the above example would look like this:

```php
#[OA\Info(title="My First API", version="0.1")]
class OpenApi {}

class Controller{
    #[OA\Get(path: '/api/resource.json')]
    #[OA\Response(response: '200', description: 'An example resource')]
    public function getResource()
    {
       // ...
    }
}
```

### Using variables

You can use constants inside doctrine annotations.

```php
define("API_HOST", ($env === "production") ? "example.com" : "localhost");
```

```php
/**
 * @OA\Server(url=API_HOST)
 */
```

When you're using the CLI you'll need to include the php file with the constants using the `--bootstrap` options:

```bash
openapi --bootstrap constants.php
```

### Annotation placement

You shouldn't place all annotations inside one big @OA\OpenApi() annotation block, but scatter them throughout your codebase.
swagger-php will scan your project and merge all annotations into one @OA\OpenApi annotation.

The big benefit swagger-php provides is that the documentation lives close to the code implementing the API.

**As of swagger-php v4 all annotations or attributes must be associated with code (class, method, parameter)**

### Arrays and Objects

Doctrine annotation supports arrays, but uses `{` and `}` instead of `[` and `]`.

Doctrine also supports objects, which also use `{` and `}` and require the property names to be surrounded with `"`.

::: warning DON'T WRITE

```php
/**
 * @OA\Info(
 *   title="My first API",
 *   version="1.0.0",
 *   contact={
 *     "email": "support@example.com"
 *   }
 * )
 */
```

:::

This "works" but most objects have an annotation with the same name as the property, such as `@OA\Contact` for `contact`:

::: tip WRITE

```php
/**
 * @OA\Info(
 *   title="My first API",
 *   version="1.0.0",
 *   @OA\Contact(
 *     email="support@example.com"
 *   )
 * )
 */
```

:::

This also adds validation, so when you misspell a property or forget a required property, it will trigger a PHP warning.
For example, if you write `emial="support@example.com"`, swagger-php would generate a notice with `Unexpected field "emial" for @OA\Contact(), expecting "name", "email", ...`

Placing multiple annotations of the same type will result in an array of objects.
For objects, the key is defined by the field with the same name as the annotation: `response` in a `@OA\Response`, `property` in a `@OA\Property`, etc.

```php
/**
 * @OA\Get(
 *   path="/products",
 *   summary="list products",
 *   @OA\Response(
 *     response=200,
 *     description="A list with products"
 *   ),
 *   @OA\Response(
 *     response="default",
 *     description="an ""unexpected"" error"
 *   )
 * )
 */
```

#### Results in:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
paths:
  /products:
    get:
      summary: "list products"
      responses:
        "200":
          description: "A list with products"
        default:
          description: 'an "unexpected" error'
```

### Detects values based on context

swagger-php looks at the context of the comment which reduces duplication.

```php
/**
 * @OA\Schema()
 */
class Product {

    /**
     * The product name
     * @var string
     * @OA\Property()
     */
    public $name;
}
```

#### Results in:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
components:
  schemas:
    Product:
      properties:
        name:
          description: "The product name"
          type: string
      type: object
```

#### As if you'd written:

```php
    /**
     * The product name
     * @var string
     *
     * @OA\Property(
     *   property="name",
     *   type="string",
     *   description="The product name"
     * )
     */
    public $name;
```

### Shortcuts

#### Anotation namespace

Instead of writing the <abbr title="Full Qualified Class Name">FQCN</abbr>: `@OpenApi\Annotations\Response()` you can write the shorter `@OA\Response()` instead.

This works because doctrine picks up on the use statements like:

```php
use OpenApi\Annotations as OA;
```

And swagger-php injects this namespace alias, even when it's not in the php file.  
But if your editor supports doctrine annotation completion, you still need to add the namespace alias otherwise it can't find the annotation classes for autocompletion.

#### Json or Xml

The `@OA\MediaType` is used to describe the content:

```php
/**
 * @OA\Response(
 *     response=200,
 *     description="successful operation",
 *     @OA\MediaType(
 *         mediaType="application/json",
 *         @OA\Schema(ref="#/components/schemas/User"),
 *     )
 * ),
 */
```

But because most API requests and responses are JSON, the `@OA\JsonContent` allows you to write:

```php
/**
 * @OA\Response(
 *     response=200,
 *     description="successful operation",
 *     @OA\JsonContent(ref="#/components/schemas/User"),
 * )
 */
```

During processing the `@OA\JsonContent` unfolds to `@OA\MediaType( mediaType="application/json", @OA\Schema(`
and will generate the same output.

On a similar note, you generally don't have to write a `@OA\PathItem` because this annotation will be generated based on the path in operation `@OA\Get`, `@OA\Post`, etc.

## Reusing annotations (ref)

It's common that multiple requests have some overlap in either the request or the response.
To keep things DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself) the specification includes referencing other parts of the JSON using `$ref`s

```php
/**
 * @OA\Schema(
 *   schema="product_id",
 *   type="integer",
 *   format="int64",
 *   description="The unique identifier of a product in our catalog"
 * )
 */
```

#### Results in:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
components:
  schemas:
    product_id:
      description: "The unique identifier of a product in our catalog"
      type: integer
      format: int64
```

This doesn't do anything by itself, but now you can reference this piece by its path in the JSON `#/components/schemas/product_id`

```php
    /**
     * @OA\Property(ref="#/components/schemas/product_id")
     */
    public $id;
```

For more tips on refs, browse through the [using-refs example](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/Examples/using-refs).

## Composition

You can combine model definitions into new schema compositions with [allOf](https://swagger.io/specification/#schemaComposition)

```php
/**
 * @OA\Schema(
 *   schema="UpdateItem",
 *   allOf={
 *     @OA\Schema(ref="#/components/schemas/NewItem"),
 *     @OA\Schema(
 *       @OA\Property(property="id", type="integer"),
 *       @OA\Property(property="created_at", ref="#/components/schemas/BaseModel/properties/createdAt")
 *     )
 *   }
 * )
 */
```

More info in the [Inheritance and Polymorphism](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/data-models/inheritance-and-polymorphism/) chapter.

## Array parameters in query

Depending on [style-values](https://swagger.io/specification/#style-values) `@OA\Parameter(in="query", name="param", ...)` might create urls like this: `path?param=123&param=abc` which doesn't work when reading the param values in php.

The solution is to change the name `param` into `param[]` which will create
`path?param[]=123&param[]=abc` and results in an php array.

## Vendor extensions

The specification allows for [custom properties](http://swagger.io/specification/#vendorExtensions) as long as they start with "x-". Therefore all swagger-php annotations have an `x` property which will unfold into "x-" properties.

```php
/**
 * @OA\Info(
 *   title="Example",
 *   version="1.0.0",
 *   x={
 *     "some-name": "a-value",
 *     "another": 2,
 *     "complex-type": {
 *       "supported":{
 *         {"version": "1.0", "level": "baseapi"},
 *         {"version": "2.1", "level": "fullapi"},
 *       }
 *     }
 *   }
 * )
 */
```

#### Results in:

```yaml
openapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Example
  version: 1
  x-some-name: a-value
  x-another: 2
  x-complex-type:
    supported:
      - version: "1.0"
        level: baseapi
      - version: "2.1"
        level: fullapi
```

The [Amazon API Gateway](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/api-gateway-swagger-extensions.html) for example, makes use of these.

## OpenApi

To learn about what you can generate, which options to use and how, look at the [docs on swagger.io](https://swagger.io/docs/)

It has sections about:

- [Basic structure](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/basic-structure/)
- [Describing parameters](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-parameters/)
- [Describing responses](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/describing-responses/)
- and [more](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/)

For more detailed information look at the [OpenApi Specification](http://swagger.io/specification/)
