docs/related-projects.md, before:

---
sidebar: false
---

# Related projects

| Project                       | Description                                               |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Swagger UI][1]               | The webinterface for reading the generated documentation  |
| [Swagger Explained][2]        | Browse the spec by using an swagger.json.                 |
| [silex2swagger][3]            | Generate swagger documentation from Silex Annotations     |
| [yii2-swagger][4]             | swagger-php intergation with yii2                         |
| [Lumen swagger][5]            | swagger-php integration with lumen/laravel                |
| [NelmioApiDocBundle][6]       | Symfony bundle on top of swagger-php                      |
| [auto-swagger-ui][7]          | Automatically add swagger ui and json to your application |
| [openapi-router][8]           | Configure framework routes from OpenApi annotations       |
| [openapi-verifier][9]         | Verify response against OpenAPI specification in PHPUnit  |
| [openapi-filter][10]          | Filter internal paths, operations, parameters, etc        |
| [OpenAPI-Symfony-Routing][11] | Load routes in Symfony based on OpenAPI annotations       |
| [Swag It PHP][12]             | Convert JSON to PHP Swagger annotations                   |

Is a related project missing? Create a pull request!

[1]: https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/
[2]: https://bfanger.nl/swagger-explained/
[3]: https://github.com/DerManoMann/silex2swagger
[4]: https://github.com/lichunqiang/yii2-swagger
[5]: https://github.com/DarkaOnLine/SwaggerLumen
[6]: https://github.com/nelmio/NelmioApiDocBundle
[7]: https://github.com/kevupton/auto-swagger-ui
[8]: https://github.com/DerManoMann/openapi-router
[9]: https://github.com/DerManoMann/openapi-verifier
[10]: https://github.com/Mermade/openapi-filter
[11]: https://github.com/Tobion/OpenAPI-Symfony-Routing
[12]: https://kizu514.com/swagit.php

Commit message:

add+update project links (#1273)
- added laravel swagger project
- update lumen swagger project

docs/related-projects.md, after:

---
sidebar: false
---

# Related projects

| Project                       | Description                                               |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Swagger UI][1]               | The webinterface for reading the generated documentation  |
| [Swagger Explained][2]        | Browse the spec by using an swagger.json.                 |
| [silex2swagger][3]            | Generate swagger documentation from Silex Annotations     |
| [yii2-swagger][4]             | swagger-php intergation with yii2                         |
| [Lumen swagger][5]            | swagger-php integration with lumen/laravel                |
| [NelmioApiDocBundle][6]       | Symfony bundle on top of swagger-php                      |
| [auto-swagger-ui][7]          | Automatically add swagger ui and json to your application |
| [openapi-router][8]           | Configure framework routes from OpenApi annotations       |
| [openapi-verifier][9]         | Verify response against OpenAPI specification in PHPUnit  |
| [openapi-filter][10]          | Filter internal paths, operations, parameters, etc        |
| [OpenAPI-Symfony-Routing][11] | Load routes in Symfony based on OpenAPI annotations       |
| [Swag It PHP][12]             | Convert JSON to PHP Swagger annotations                   |
| [Laravel Swagger][13]         | OpenApi or Swagger integration to Laravel                 |

Is a related project missing? Create a pull request!

[1]: https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/
[2]: https://bfanger.nl/swagger-explained/
[3]: https://github.com/DerManoMann/silex2swagger
[4]: https://github.com/lichunqiang/yii2-swagger
[5]: https://github.com/DarkaOnLine/SwaggerLume
[6]: https://github.com/nelmio/NelmioApiDocBundle
[7]: https://github.com/kevupton/auto-swagger-ui
[8]: https://github.com/DerManoMann/openapi-router
[9]: https://github.com/DerManoMann/openapi-verifier
[10]: https://github.com/Mermade/openapi-filter
[11]: https://github.com/Tobion/OpenAPI-Symfony-Routing
[12]: https://kizu514.com/swagit.php
[13]: https://github.com/DarkaOnLine/L5-Swagger
