docs/reference/processors.md, before:

# Processor Reference

This page is generated automatically from the `swagger-php` sources.

For improvements head over to [GitHub](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php) and create a PR ;)


*Processors are listed in the default order of execution.*

## Default Processors
### [DocBlockDescriptions](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/DocBlockDescriptions.php)

Checks if the annotation has a summary and/or description property
and uses the text in the comment block (above the annotations) as summary and/or description.

Use `null`, for example: `@Annotation(description=null)`, if you don't want the annotation to have a description.
### [MergeIntoOpenApi](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/MergeIntoOpenApi.php)

Merge all @OA\OpenApi annotations into one.
### [MergeIntoComponents](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/MergeIntoComponents.php)

Merge reusable annotation into @OA\Schemas.
### [ExpandClasses](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/ExpandClasses.php)

Iterate over the chain of ancestors of a schema and:
- if the ancestor has a schema
=> inherit from the ancestor if it has a schema (allOf) and stop.
- else
=> merge ancestor properties into the schema.
### [ExpandInterfaces](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/ExpandInterfaces.php)

Look at all (direct) interfaces for a schema and:
- merge interfaces annotations/methods into the schema if the interface does not have a schema itself
- inherit from the interface if it has a schema (allOf).
### [ExpandTraits](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/ExpandTraits.php)

Look at all (direct) traits for a schema and:
- merge trait annotations/methods/properties into the schema if the trait does not have a schema itself
- inherit from the trait if it has a schema (allOf).
### [ExpandEnums](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/ExpandEnums.php)

Expands PHP enums.

Determines `schema`, `enum` and `type`.
### [AugmentSchemas](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentSchemas.php)

Use the Schema context to extract useful information and inject that into the annotation.

Merges properties.
### [AugmentRequestBody](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentRequestBody.php)

Use the RequestBody context to extract useful information and inject that into the annotation.
### [AugmentProperties](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentProperties.php)

Use the property context to extract useful information and inject that into the annotation.
### [BuildPaths](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/BuildPaths.php)

Build the openapi->paths using the detected `@OA\PathItem` and `@OA\Operation` (`@OA\Get`, `@OA\Post`, etc).
### [AugmentParameters](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentParameters.php)

Augments shared and operations parameters from docblock comments.
#### Config settings
<dl>
  <dt><strong>augmentParameters.augmentOperationParameters</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">bool</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">true</span></dt>
  <dd><p>If set to <code>true</code> try to find operation parameter descriptions in the operation docblock.</p>  </dd>
</dl>


### [AugmentRefs](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentRefs.php)


### [MergeJsonContent](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/MergeJsonContent.php)

Split JsonContent into Schema and MediaType.
### [MergeXmlContent](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/MergeXmlContent.php)

Split XmlContent into Schema and MediaType.
### [OperationId](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/OperationId.php)

Generate the OperationId based on the context of the OpenApi annotation.
#### Config settings
<dl>
  <dt><strong>operationId.hash</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">bool</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">true</span></dt>
  <dd><p>If set to <code>true</code> generate ids (md5) instead of clear text operation ids.</p>  </dd>
</dl>


### [AugmentTags](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentTags.php)

Ensures that all tags used on operations also exist in the global <code>tags</code> list.
### [CleanUnmerged](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/CleanUnmerged.php)


### [PathFilter](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/PathFilter.php)

Allows to filter endpoints based on tags and/or path.

If no `tags` or `paths` filters are set, no filtering is performed.
All filter (regular) expressions must be enclosed within delimiter characters as they are used as-is.
#### Config settings
<dl>
  <dt><strong>pathFilter.tags</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">array</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">[]</span></dt>
  <dd><p>A list of regular expressions to match <code>tags</code> to include.</p>  </dd>
</dl>
<dl>
  <dt><strong>pathFilter.paths</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">array</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">[]</span></dt>
  <dd><p>A list of regular expressions to match <code>paths</code> to include.</p>  </dd>
</dl>


### [CleanUnusedComponents](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/CleanUnusedComponents.php)

Tracks the use of all <code>Components</code> and removed unused schemas.
#### Config settings
<dl>
  <dt><strong>cleanUnusedComponents.enabled</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">bool</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">false</span></dt>
  <dd><p>Enables/disables the <code>CleanUnusedComponents</code> processor.</p>  </dd>
</dl>

Commit message:

Add 'Processor Configuration' section to processor reference

docs/reference/processors.md, after:

# Processor Reference

This page is generated automatically from the `swagger-php` sources.

For improvements head over to [GitHub](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php) and create a PR ;)


*Processors are listed in the default order of execution.*

## Processor Configuration
### Command line
The `-c` option allows to specify a name/value pair with the name consisting
of the processor name (starting lowercase) and  option name separated by a dot (`.`).

```shell
> ./bin/openapi -c operatinId.hash=true // ...
> ./bin/openapi -c pathFilter.tags[]=/pets/ -c pathFilter.tags[]=/store/ // ...
```

### Programmatically with PHP
Configuration can be set using the `Generator::setConfig()` method. Keys can either be the same
as on the command line or be broken down into nested arrays.

```php
(new Generator())
    ->setConfig([
        'operationId.hash' => true,
        'pathFilter' => [
            'tags' => [
                '/pets/',
                '/store/',
            ],
        ],
    ]);
```


## Default Processors
### [DocBlockDescriptions](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/DocBlockDescriptions.php)

Checks if the annotation has a summary and/or description property
and uses the text in the comment block (above the annotations) as summary and/or description.

Use `null`, for example: `@Annotation(description=null)`, if you don't want the annotation to have a description.
### [MergeIntoOpenApi](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/MergeIntoOpenApi.php)

Merge all @OA\OpenApi annotations into one.
### [MergeIntoComponents](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/MergeIntoComponents.php)

Merge reusable annotation into @OA\Schemas.
### [ExpandClasses](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/ExpandClasses.php)

Iterate over the chain of ancestors of a schema and:
- if the ancestor has a schema
=> inherit from the ancestor if it has a schema (allOf) and stop.
- else
=> merge ancestor properties into the schema.
### [ExpandInterfaces](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/ExpandInterfaces.php)

Look at all (direct) interfaces for a schema and:
- merge interfaces annotations/methods into the schema if the interface does not have a schema itself
- inherit from the interface if it has a schema (allOf).
### [ExpandTraits](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/ExpandTraits.php)

Look at all (direct) traits for a schema and:
- merge trait annotations/methods/properties into the schema if the trait does not have a schema itself
- inherit from the trait if it has a schema (allOf).
### [ExpandEnums](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/ExpandEnums.php)

Expands PHP enums.

Determines `schema`, `enum` and `type`.
### [AugmentSchemas](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentSchemas.php)

Use the Schema context to extract useful information and inject that into the annotation.

Merges properties.
### [AugmentRequestBody](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentRequestBody.php)

Use the RequestBody context to extract useful information and inject that into the annotation.
### [AugmentProperties](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentProperties.php)

Use the property context to extract useful information and inject that into the annotation.
### [BuildPaths](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/BuildPaths.php)

Build the openapi->paths using the detected `@OA\PathItem` and `@OA\Operation` (`@OA\Get`, `@OA\Post`, etc).
### [AugmentParameters](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentParameters.php)

Augments shared and operations parameters from docblock comments.
#### Config settings
<dl>
  <dt><strong>augmentParameters.augmentOperationParameters</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">bool</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">true</span></dt>
  <dd><p>If set to <code>true</code> try to find operation parameter descriptions in the operation docblock.</p>  </dd>
</dl>


### [AugmentRefs](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentRefs.php)


### [MergeJsonContent](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/MergeJsonContent.php)

Split JsonContent into Schema and MediaType.
### [MergeXmlContent](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/MergeXmlContent.php)

Split XmlContent into Schema and MediaType.
### [OperationId](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/OperationId.php)

Generate the OperationId based on the context of the OpenApi annotation.
#### Config settings
<dl>
  <dt><strong>operationId.hash</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">bool</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">true</span></dt>
  <dd><p>If set to <code>true</code> generate ids (md5) instead of clear text operation ids.</p>  </dd>
</dl>


### [AugmentTags](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/AugmentTags.php)

Ensures that all tags used on operations also exist in the global <code>tags</code> list.
### [CleanUnmerged](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/CleanUnmerged.php)


### [PathFilter](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/PathFilter.php)

Allows to filter endpoints based on tags and/or path.

If no `tags` or `paths` filters are set, no filtering is performed.
All filter (regular) expressions must be enclosed within delimiter characters as they are used as-is.
#### Config settings
<dl>
  <dt><strong>pathFilter.tags</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">array</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">[]</span></dt>
  <dd><p>A list of regular expressions to match <code>tags</code> to include.</p>  </dd>
</dl>
<dl>
  <dt><strong>pathFilter.paths</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">array</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">[]</span></dt>
  <dd><p>A list of regular expressions to match <code>paths</code> to include.</p>  </dd>
</dl>


### [CleanUnusedComponents](https://github.com/zircote/swagger-php/tree/master/src/Processors/CleanUnusedComponents.php)

Tracks the use of all <code>Components</code> and removed unused schemas.
#### Config settings
<dl>
  <dt><strong>cleanUnusedComponents.enabled</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">bool</span></dt>
  <dt><strong>default</strong> : <span style="font-family: monospace;">false</span></dt>
  <dd><p>Enables/disables the <code>CleanUnusedComponents</code> processor.</p>  </dd>
</dl>
